The Joe Rogan experience. Is this a thing that you brought up?
I found the first wash person. I've got to keep.
Try to keep this like a fifth. Sure. There.
We go. I got to bring a Welsh dragon for you. Uh, well strap, well striking.
So this is on our flag in, in Wales,
goes back a long time ago since we were like protecting ourselves and
pride. Wow. It's cool.
You know, the history of it. So this is a classic whilst dragon.
Yeah. I think his name, like one of the coolest flags in the world.
He's just got this big, big raging dragon on a flag.
That is pretty cool for if I'm the first worshiper I gotta,
I got to bring you a, the red dragon. Look at it right there. There's some,
some images. There we go. Yeah. There's been two L's before. No.
No, no. How bad is it? Yeah. Beautiful.
It is a good place. Lots of mountains right on the coast there as well.
Of course, forests lakes. Good for training. That's where I do all my training.
Hardcore elements.
Speaking of training, Ash, tell everybody what you've done. So.
I've recently only five months ago now five and a half months came back from
achieving, uh,
my third world first record in walking the entire length of the Yangtze river in
China. So it's the third longest river in the world. Uh,
the longest to run through a single nation. So it's 4,000 miles.
It took 352 days. Um,
and it's from the Tibetan plateau and the west of China,
as you're talking 5,100 meters above sea level,
which is equivalent to aerospace camp and, and year 4,000 miles later,
352 days,
you end up near the near Shanghai where it pours out into the east China sea.
You know what I thought when I heard that you did this, I thought two things.
One, I thought this guy's insane.
Like what kind of willpower does it take to walk and hike 4,000 plus miles.
But the other thing I thought is this kind of validates a lot of the ideas that
people have always had about human beings,
migrating from Africa and through Siberia, do the pairing straight.
Like you can do that. What you did, what you did is not dissimilar,
you know, that's it,
you got trails all over the world and you're just doing it for a world record.
Imagine if you're doing it because you're trying to stay alive.
It's going to keep your family alive. Yeah, yeah.
I'd say what yeah. We would have had our there's so much,
so much history in journeys that man can do kind of taken on since. Wow.
I'm reading, um, sapien at the minute. I only just started,
but that's just mind boggling with the numbers, you know,
it takes right back and it's like, whoa, whoa. But, um, yeah.
So the source of the Yangtze, it was actually only discovered in 2009,
the true and scientific source. So yeah, that gives us, we had to do two,
it took over two years of planning.
So it was a case of work and heavily in China, um,
finding out whether this had ever been done before it talk,
we had to get different teams involved, uh, globally. Um,
and then we discovered that I was always,
I was always preparing to go from the traditional source,
which is most famous for, for the source of Yangtze B. Uh,
you actually would be in there,
but then we only discovered about a year into the planning that actually there's
a true and scientific source found by the same guy who mapped the traditional
source.
Yet he pointed it with NASA used all the satellite technology was able to
correct as wrong, slightly longer than the, the traditional source.
And that was it. When I write, it's got to be the true and scientific source,
how much longer is it? It's probably only a distance of 20 to 30 miles,
which that's only really a days Trek, but it was more close to Tibet.
It was more south, uh, Southwest of China. So it was closer to the spend Porter,
which means it's a little bit more sensitive. So it was tougher to go from,
from the true and scientific source, for sure. But it's the longer one.
If you're going to walk that distance, you've got to do it the proper way.
I agree with you. I'm glad you think that way,
but obviously a person that's willing to walk 4,000 miles would think that way.
You wouldn't say 20 miles. If you skipped on 20 miles.
A day, it was like, well, you did a pretty good job,
but actually Mike over here just did the whole.
Thing. Actual scientific he's the real one. Well.
That's how that happened towards the end as well. So coming up near Shanghai,
there's an official point of where the Yangtze paws into the east China sea
and the like, you know, you only have to go to this, this point. I'm like, no,
I am walk into where the land ends. So that took me an extra,
only an extra couple of days, but imagine finishing it's like,
didn't quite make it. He didn't quite make it.
Feeling like when, you know, you only have two days.
Left. Um, well.
We were hit by storm storm Akima so it was one of the biggest
storms they've had in the past 30 years. Uh,
and that put me into hiding United to shelter up after everything that I'd faced
over 350 days, you know? Um,
and that stopped me only a couple of days before I crossed into the east China
sea before the finish. But at that point it's almost,
I'd visualized the completion over and over again in my head I'd played it so
many times of what it would be like, what it would feel like it's, you know,
everything to, to cross the finish line that almost when that day happened.
And I did cross the finish line,
I almost over visualized to feel anything. It's just like, well,
so spot downtime, you know? Wow. Yeah. And I believe, you know,
the law of attraction, visualization, I've always been a big believer in that.
And same with Mongolia and Madagascar, which might were my previous expeditions.
Uh, I almost lost my life on both of those trips at the time that I'm suffering.
I'm just constantly visualizing in always focusing on recovering,
getting better, visualize in the finish, keep getting up, keep pushing on. I.
Want to get to that. I want, I want to get to those, but I want to,
I want to ask you when you decide to plan this trip,
so how much had you learned from the first two crazy trips that you had
and how did you calculate, like how much food you're going to need?
Where are you going to meet? Neat pit stops,
where you're going to be able to like, how did you do it?
So with that, we're always looking for communities on, on a long route,
you know, as a there's food. And so,
and actually that brings me back to the traditional and then the true scientific
source. If we went from the traditional,
we'd go maybe one week or one and a half weeks without coming across any locals.
So we'd have to carry a week and a half worth of Russian packs in our backpack,
but there's true. And scientific source sentenced back.
I think it was two or three weeks.
We couldn't find any community along the way,
via satellite and via the people that we were there,
my logistics managers. So that night was Nita, Carey.
Way to try to visit people,
find them through satellite as you're tracking through a forest yet,
and then try to get food.
That's it? And we're always maximizing it as well. So we're saying, okay,
that's three weeks. So let's carry food for three and a half or four weeks.
Because if that community's now empty or abandoned, then we're out of food.
What, what are you carrying for food? I would.
Carry a Russian packs. So, and the Russian Pikes were pretty good.
We had like chicken tikka, masala, spaghetti bolonaise um,
carbonara and each ration pack was around 800 kilocalories.
Are you using our CA or these dehydrated? Yeah.
That's true. So you just boil the water in there. You wait about 15 minutes,
mountain house, like that kind of a deal. Yeah. Yeah. Similar. That's it. So.
You must be so looking forward to regular food by the time that's over. Oh,
what's the first thing. Yeah.
Um, you know, the, the one that I was protein, uh,
the one I was craving was just protein. So I was thinking of peanut butter.
You get a cheese on toast. Cause he had just mostly carbohydrates. Exactly.
So I was like chicken as well as a meeting.
I was just craving all of this big time.
I don't know what the first thing I say is your body knows what you need.
Exactly. Yeah. You've got to listen to your body. You've got to listen.
Listen. I mean, it's hard to know. I don't, I'm not really sure what I hear.
You know,
you had an odd craving sometimes I'll crave an ice cream is that's what I'm
supposed to listen to some ice cream.
That seems weird. Yeah. He was.
We're just listening to cravings. That's yeah. Ridiculous.
Yeah. And I think, you know, you, it does. I think almost listening to,
you've got to be stripped of all the,
all of the protein and what not running for you, your body currently, how many,
I think if you fall, you crave an ice cream, you know, if you fall,
you want a dessert. But I think if you're now at the point of not starvation,
but if you're really hungry and you know, what's good, what's not good. You,
I think your body gives a good tale sign of what you can at the last month of
mission Yangtze. I was really bad. I was coming across cities every day.
Cause you can imagine like towards Shanghai, you come in across cities,
chemicals, towns, communities. And so I was just craving protein.
I was craving fats and a lot the time for that last month,
I was just eating really unhealthy, just getting in stodgy foods, dodgy,
fat protein, you know, there was fast food chains along the way, KFC,
you know that I sort of, yes,
I was out of the Y the wilderness was like six months worth.
Once I'd finished the first half,
it was gradual for then another two or three months.
But the last three months you'll go city after city or really built it high
population there. Um,
and I found that my body was criticized listening to my body, scraping fats,
craving protein, and yeah, you're right. It did get ridiculous.
I was going to these, you know, fast food and I, the translation,
I could speak Chinese a little bit. I was just going to ask you to get by.
But some say Chinese, like which dialect?
Oh, there's over a hundred dialects yet. So that's where it got difficult.
Oh yeah. Um, it was nails. It was nails really difficult.
So speak Mandarin. What do you speak your basic Mandarin basis? Yeah. Yeah.
Enough to just about get by, but I,
I skipped all of the basics and went straight into the sentences. Where are,
where are there bears here? Are there bears are the wolves, uh,
where the water food in a shelter. So yes. Get a lot of the basics.
Weren't straight. Yeah. So those.
Are two questions I don't ever want to hear.
Are there bears here and where are the wolves not, are there wolves here?
Where are they? Where all they up and you're out there walking yeah.
For a year. Yeah.
Does it, um, for the first six months, specially sort.
Of for the first six months is mostly hiking in the woods.
It's hiking in the world in S on the Tibetan plateau.
Are you carrying your camp on your back? So you have a bivy sack.
Like what do you sleep in a tent?
So we have 10 really wait sort of car last 10, get it up storm.
It's amazing how light they can get those things too. Now he did.
It because I had to carry all of the Phil.
We were filming for a documentary sites, carrot, electronics, and got too heavy.
Now, do you, when you're,
when you're in this tent to go with a double layer tent,
so you have provides more insulation, it's a little heavier,
or do you have like a really lightweight tent?
Just try to tough it out in the cold. We have.
Uh, I had a double layer,
but that's because the double layer was just so small and so
light and it was a case of yeah. You know, that's your comfort,
that's your shelter and I'm going to be facing some.
Yeah. That's what I was thinking. I was like,
you'd sacrifice probably the weight for just something that's going to keep you
insulated in there. That's it? Yeah.
And do you have a pad that protects you from the ground? Yeah.
And then a mattress pad on top of that?
Uh, yeah, we've got the part,
like the waterproof pad on the ground from the tent.
And then we've got to sleep in mat, uh, maybe about this, this thick,
about a half an inch to an inch thickness. Um,
and then I had a minus 25 or minus 30 degree Celsius
sleeping bag and what that is in Fahrenheit. Uh, but that was,
you know, you got toasty inside. It can be minus what is the issue.
With the ground though? Like,
do you have to have an insulated pad to make sure that the ground coal doesn't.
Get to you? Yeah, for sure. That's what the sleep and muddy. So it's sort of,
you can roll it down. It's really small, really tight,
really lightweight as well.
But once you roll it out and it's got like memory foam almost inside something
similar and you have to, to, to blow in it, pump it a little bit more,
only takes 10, 20 breaths. Um, easy to pack away as well.
Representation from the core of the ground. It protects from there.
Cause that's what you need. You know, the ground, just.
Dude, I've never been comfortable camping. It's always.
It's like, you wake up like popping. Yeah, you're awake.
You made it, but it's still you feel, yeah.
You can do, you do get used to it. But, um, especially after the tracking,
we were covering 50 kilometers some days. What are we carrying about 20,
25 miles, especially in the Tibetan plateau.
So after that day's Trek only two ration packs per day.
So you're taken in 1,600 calories.
That's not a lot, not a lot. We will. And we were carrying, did you lose?
I probably by, and I've still lost weight now about 13,
12 to 13 kilograms, I would say in weight, uh,
which over the year was I lost the same amount in Mongolia.
32 Pounds summit.
About 32. Is it 32 pounds? Yeah. So, um, wow. That's a lot of weight to lose.
You're not a big guy. Yeah. That's it.
Man. That must've been, you must've been really drawn out at the end big time,
although it.
Kind of worked itself out because towards the end,
that's coming across more food. Didn't need my, my ration packs, of course.
So it was coming across more, um, restaurants, I can collect food as I, as I go,
it's not solo and unsupported journey. Um,
so I was just utilizing that I was eating with the locals and I was, you know,
taken as much calories down as I possibly could whilst I was tracking.
Did you pick like the, the type of meals based on calories?
Did you like when I'm talking about like the mountain house type deals or I
don't know what company you use? Oh yeah. Expedition foods.
I think actually different ones that are more nutrient rich and more
calorie. Rich.
Yeah. They have the smaller, lighter ones as well,
which you got about 600 calories. Um, they are smaller.
They are lighter, easier to pack,
but I needed as much as I could possibly get in a special, they.
Have a bunch of healthy options now.
Cause a lot of CrossFitters are out there camping these days and yeah,
that's it.
I want to get that healthy paleo food while they're out there in the mind.
But the,
the what's undeniable has got to be for you is that once you've
made those steps,
the first steps for the first day that you have this monumental thing in front
of you, like what, what was that like? Knowing when you started like here.
Ready? All right. Bye Ash. Bye.
Oh man. Yeah, it was exactly that. It was exactly that it was daunting.
It was. So before we got to the, all we got to the source of the Yangtze river,
we lost, I think four members, when I say lost, they survived,
but they got altitude sickness. Um,
they were fearing for their lives because the bears cause of the wolves.
So before we reached day number one, before we reached the start line,
we've already got four members of the film crew of guides, uh, evacuated,
taken off the mountains, which brought me off the mountains as well.
Cause I needed to regroup with a different team.
So everyone was scared and people also got out to sickness. I got up.
We are just over 5,000 meters. Oh my goodness point. Yeah.
So it's equivalent to Everest base camp. I'd say, oh,
which you can get altitude sickness from really high that's 15,000 feet.
Right. That is about that. Yeah. Yeah.
And there's wolves up there. There's wolves.
You can run air. Yeah.
What, how helpless would you feel at 15,000 feet when you see a pack of wolves?
Oh man. Yeah. And they're looking at you like you don't look too good, buddy.
It's the bears that scared me the most. This should scare.
Them. I can't do anything against the back end. It's a Wolf. Yeah.
You can't do anything. Especially.
At 15,000 feet, we can barely tie your shoes. of them as well.
Oh my God. Yeah. Yeah.
We can't carry any weaponry. It's oh yeah.
Oh, sitting duck really can't carry any weaponry.
Yeah. Yeah. You can't even have a knife.
Uh, I tried, I took a knife out. Um, did I say, yeah, I took a knife out,
but I was taken from insecurity flying out to the west.
So I bought another one in Yushi yet.
I did have a knife for the first month or two. Yeah. But again,
a pack of wolves.
Yeah. You ain't going to do with it now. Yeah. Rip your ankles.
Tear your legs apart. Yeah. Wolves.
Are the nastiest hunters. Um.
And we had close encounter as well with uh, with the park. There was a, yeah,
there was a, a Tibet and he was trying to warn us. He was trying to say, well,
this is my, this is my angle. We were just talking to him.
He looked a little bit worried.
It looked a little bit stressful high on the mountains.
He keeps pointing down a valley talking to into Tibetan. We didn't understand.
We just sort of waved off. Thank you. By big smile off we go say where it was.
Me and my friend also videographer Kyle, we cracked on.
But Kyle filmed all of that conversation. And four months later,
we find out that from a girl,
from my editor team in Beijing who could speak to Baton that he was saying,
right ahead, write down that valley as a pack of wolves.
And only yesterday that it killed, uh, a local lady and China, you know,
they were trying to get us not to go down there saying, don't go, well,
we didn't know. So we're like, oh yeah, all the best. Thanks. See ya.
And we cracked on her for the next two days. We were followed.
We believe we were followed by or stalked by a pack of wolves
and they cover bigger distance then than humans cover. You know,
for two days they would just howl in the same proximity. Same distance away.
[Inaudible]. How do you go to sleep at night? What's that like?
Yeah, it was, luckily it was windy. The wind would pick up at nighttime.
So it rallied your tent.
So you can hear the howling could only hear you on the day, but yeah,
you still stood there your nice day. It's all just there.
You constantly show and over to you buddy. Are you okay? You're just.
Going to become a burrito in the middle of the night. Yeah. Yeah.
It was scary. I felt vulnerable, really vulnerable at that park bro.
And the low, how many days were you doing this with the wolves? Uh,
so it was two days that they were following us,
but we were in sort of Wolf county. If you like,
for the best part of two or three months,
I would say with the bears as well.
And the bears became an issue because I sort of went out there with a healthy
mindset. As long as I leave the bears alone,
the bears are going to leave me alone. Right.
That the locals were telling me otherwise.
And they would start showing me photos,
star show me videos and sending me clips saying this happened only one,
two kilometers away from you or from where you are now, people were killed by.
People killed just running into, um, huts, killing families.
And they were trying to say that they're coming off the mountains.
Cause it's too cold.
They're looking for calories before they go into hibernation.
So we were there in the wrong season. Um,
and it's that that's terrified as the most, it was the stories of the locals.
And you know, if the locals panic, then you should definitely be panicking.
Is what I was saying. A lot.
Of parts of the world where you have to be really worried about wild animals all
the time. Yeah. We here in America, for whatever reason, we forgotten that.
I think everybody that lives in a big city is basically kind of forgotten that.
But when you make that Trek, you realize like, oh, there's no rules out here.
There they'll eat. You they'll eat every deleted caribou. They lead a moose.
Why wouldn't they queue one of the things,
your special didn't even know what the you are.
It's probably the only thing that keeps you alive is they haven't eaten a person
lately.
Yeah. And they take, like you said, caribou, they can take the bears.
They're going to caribou and moose, moose, a huge as well.
My friend.
Watched a moose kill, uh, or excuse me, watched a bear,
kill a moose on a spotting scope.
He was looking through a spotting soap and he saw a bear SWAT down the back of a
moose, just break its back terrified. He said the grizzly hit the moose so hard.
It's snapped its back Jay I'm like.
What? The power [inaudible] and they are big on there. The,
the moose is huge.
Yeah. This bear swatted that thing and broke its back. And he said, yeah,
he watched it go down. He watched this chase.
There's like this alternation between this bear and the moose.
And he stayed on it and the bear gets a hold of the most just swats.
It the most is like, I got to get the outta here. And the bear, I was like,
you going nowhere? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Those animals are up there in China too.
They're very similar type of bear. Right? It's a type of brown bear. The same.
Type of brown bay. Yeah. Slightly. You've got the big ones here.
Haven't you had the Grizzlies in the last night.
They killed them all to California.
Everything that they had that was here in California. It's on our, our flag.
It's our state flag. If you look at the California state flag,
there's a giant grizzly bear in the middle of the California state flag because
he used to be an issue here. They killed so many people that we just killed.
All the bears not wait. I wasn't.
Here yet. Yeah. Wow.
I didn't know that. Yeah. So there's a north in Iowa.
That's it right there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're nowhere near here.
You got to go up into like Vancouver.
British Columbia has what's the British Columbia has a lot of buildings.
They have a Montana has, um, Montana has Grizzlies. Wyoming has Grizzlies,
Colorado may or may not my friend Adam saw them there,
but they're not in California anymore. And it's just because they killed them.
There's actually a town named after the last guy who died. Lavette California.
The last guy got killed by a grizzly bear.
Just out, out hunting. Was it August? Probably.
Being a dude that was alive back then. Terrifying.
So you experienced this in China. You're you're what, uh,
what are your precautions? Are you allowed to bring bear spray?
So we had an air horn. We had a whistle.
A whistle. Yeah. So they say that the boat,
the biggest attacks happened from where Tibetans out farming,
doing their business in the mountains. They,
they they're in the forest and they surprised they come up the top of the hill.
There's a bear there. And obviously the bears shocked at scared. And it just.
Yeah, that does happen with bears in America as well.
Yeah.
So they would say I'm pretty much take a whistle taken out or make yourself
aware. Well, wouldn't make the aware that you're, that you're present.
You're approaching. Uh, normally they would be,
they would scare off they'd run away. But there was a local that told me that.
So they have these big Tibet masters. Have you seen the two better masters?
Like the dogs that God,
the two pounds are terrifying more of a problem than the,
the wolves they were for me. Um, cause they can scare away.
The wolves scare with snow leopards, the bears.
But this one local was telling me that he wasn't living in this garage,
which is like a white felt tent like a year.
He was living in a concrete hub and he had a courtyard with a fence.
The fence was open, but just outside the fence it's to better,
must've chained up. And he said that this bear wasn't phased about the Tibet.
I must've walked straight past it into the courtyard and was scratching his
steel door whilst he was hiding in one of his empty cupboards.
And it's lasted about 30, 40 minutes. And he was telling me this story
and scratch him, gets the steel door alone, just in a tent.
In the wilderness. man. They're monsters.
If they weren't a real thing. If grizzly bears or brown bears, weren't real.
And then they were in a movie, you'd be like what? The poor guy.
And imagine you, you like you, someone would ask someone like you,
like why in the world, if you know, there,
there would you gonna want to walk for that long? Yeah.
Yeah. Well that's, that's it as poly people are with you.
Um, towards the start. So it was myself,
it was two guides that I had to Baton guide so we can even communicate. Um,
but with safety numbers and we took a horse for the film crew,
but the film crew got altitude sickness and left us with the horse,
which I named Casta choy. We haven't seen the movie face off. Yes.
That the badass Casta Choi I've got to Larry's I've got this thing where I name
like my bicycles or like carry the chicken.
We'll get to that code of chicken and Madagascar. I've been given them old,
crazy, ridiculous grinding names. And I was like,
this horse is the last one standing by us. My, my crew, my,
my guides are suffering with altitude sickness and being taken off the
mountains. You've got this horse still suffering with altitude sickness.
Never knew that, but apparently horses can,
animals can suffer with altitude sickness,
but is there like a badass still going? So it's just me, him. And I'm like,
I can't give you a granny's name or elder or dot or Gertrude and giving you
Casta choice. Okay.